In this fifth 'Resident Evil' movie, picking up immediately where the previous film left off (see 'Resident Evil: Afterlife'), Alice (Milla Jovovich) and the other survivors on the Umbrella Corporation freighter Arcadia face an attack by a fleet of airships led by Alice's former ally Jill Valentine (Sienna Guillory), who has been brainwashed by Umbrella through a red scarab device attached to her chest. When Alice shoots down and causes one airship to crash into the ship, the resultant explosion knocks her out and throws her into the water, drowning her. (The fates of K-Mart, Chris and Claire Redfield are not shown, but they are presumed to have been captured.)The story then begins with a suburban housewife who appears to be Alice living with her husband Todd (Oded Fehr) a clone of Carlos Olivera and deaf daughter Becky (Aryana Engineer). However, this idyllic life is disrupted when zombies attack and kill Todd. Alice and Becky escape to the streets and are rescued by Rain Ocampo (Michelle Rodriguez), who lets them ride in her car. As the three escape, they are hit by a truck, knocking Rain unconscious while Alice and Becky escape. Alice runs and is attacked by a zombified Todd. It is later revealed that this "Alice" is actually a clone of Alice created by Umbrella for a T-virus outbreak simulation.In the next scene, the real Alice awakens in an Umbrella base, having been captured at the Arcadia. Jill interrogates Alice, who unsuccessfully pleads with her to remember her true identity. During an unexpected power failure, Alice escapes from her cell. After battling a horde of zombies, Alice encounters Ada Wong (Li Bingbing), an associate of Albert Wesker (Shawn Roberts) the evil CEO of the corporation. Ada explains that she and Wesker no longer work for Umbrella. Wesker appears and, seeming to have redeemed himself, reveals that the Red Queen is now controlling what remains of Umbrella and he plans to aid Alice's escape and battle the base's programs, in order to save what's left of mankind. Ada also reveals that the base is underwater and serves as a testing ground for experiments. Additionally, Wesker has organized a team of freelance operatives to infiltrate the base and help Alice and Ada escape, including Leon S. Kennedy (Johann Urb), Barry Burton (Kevin Durand), and Luther West (Boris Kodjoe).Leon's team plants explosives near the entrance of the base, which will detonate in two hours and trap anybody still inside. The group plans to meet with Alice and Ada in a simulated Raccoon City suburbia, identical to the one in Alice's flashback. As Alice and Ada walk through a simulation of New York City, they defeat two Axemen zombie creatures.Leon and his team enter a Moscow simulation, but are cut off by armed Las Plagas zombies. Alice and Ada manage to enter the suburban simulation where they were supposed to meet up with Leon and his team. In the arena the two find Becky, as well as Jill and her mercenaries, consisting of clones of Alice's deceased allies: Rain, Carlos and James "One" Shade (Colin Salmon). A shoot-out occurs, resulting in Ada being captured and Alice and Becky escaping.Alice and Becky run into the "good" Rain and head to Moscow, where they meet up with Leon's team. The group escapes the intelligent zombies, and reach an elevator that leads them to submarines that could help them escape, although it shuts off. An enormous Licker creature appears, with it capturing Becky and killing "good" Rain. The group pursues the Licker, where they encounter Jill's group; another battle ensues, in which Barry is killed but not before he kills One. Alice manages to rescue Becky. During their escape from the Licker they arrive at a cloning facility where Alice and Becky see multiple copies of themselves. Realizing this Becky pleads and asks Alice to tell her the truth, at which Alice declares that she is now her mother.The Licker follows them into the cloning facility, where Alice drops grenades, and fires a grappling hook from the Grapple gun, and escapes the explosion that destroys the Licker. They rejoin Leon and Luther as the detonation occurs. The explosion results in the flooding of the facility and the death of Carlos.The group reaches the surface; however, they are met by a submarine, from which Jill, the evil Rain, and a captured Ada emerge. With new orders from the Red Queen to kill Alice, Jill battles Alice while Rain, injecting herself with the Las Plagas parasite that gives her strength and apparent invincibility, knocks out Ada and fights Leon and Luther, with Luther being killed in the process because he hit her with a fire extinguisher. Alice manages to remove and destroy the scarab device from Jill, returning her to normal. Alice joins Leon in fighting Rain; she notices there are zombies from the facility swimming up to the ice. She shoots the ice where Rain is standing, and she falls in the water, leaving her fate to the zombies.Alice, Ada, Becky, Leon, and Jill (who is no longer being controlled by the Red Queen) travel to Wesker's base: the heavily barricaded and guarded White House in the ruins of Washington DC. When they confront him, Wesker injects Alice with the T-virus, returning her former superhuman powers in order to enact his plan, then tells her that she is responsible for saving the remaining humans from extinction once and for all. Wesker then leads them up top of The White House, explaining that this is the last stand of the human race. The scene zooms out to reveal the landscape around them, showing destroyed Umbrella helicopters, volcanic craters and the remaining U.S troops fighting alongside Wesker's Umbrella army against enormous hordes of zombies and mutant creatures.